The approach was laboured and, at times, the committee overplayed. Conway was measured in the face of any onslaught.Senator Mark Daly, who redeemed himself later with some pertinent questions about the €100,000 loan issue, took everyone to the corner flag for a time with a meandering statement about the women's team.At this point, the clock was the FAI's friend and it went in at the interval comfortably ahead. But it changed after lunch when the strength of its earlier strategy became its weakness.Delaney was still out of the firing line, a fact that was commented upon by several committee members, but the parliamentary team sought to hone in on the FAI's strength in depth.Conway was bypassed. And, crucially, the hosts brought in a few subs, most notably Sinn Féin TD Jonathan O'Brien - a key figure in the rebirth of Cork City FC.Direct and straight questioning highlighted the dearth of answers.We had the honorary treasurer, Eddie Murray, admitting that he didn't know about the €100,000 loan in 2017 - the solution to a serious cash-flow problem - and stating that he didn't feel undermined by it.A new communications officer, Cathal Dervan, wasn't able to confirm who exactly had signed off on a press release issued on March 18, which said the entire board was informed.A newly appointed finance director, Alex O'Connell, was called up from the back row amid confusion over how many bank accounts the FAI had, and to deal with queries about the existence of a tax clearance cert.It was pointed out that the FAI's high-performance director, Ruud Dokter, had been sitting there for eight hours.And Conway confirmed that the legal adviser that was present with their delegation was there on behalf of Delaney - not the association.Páraic Treanor, another long-serving board member, spoke in the final minutes to confirm that he - and some of his colleagues - were also waiting on the findings of the Mazars and Grant Thornton reviews for clarity on certain matters."It's worse than I thought," said Ruth Coppinger TD later, admitting her surprise that only three board members - Delaney, honorary secretary Michael Cody and ex-president Tony Fitzgerald - were aware of the entire situation in 2017.As the afternoon session progressed, the most striking aspect of proceedings was Delaney's silence as colleagues struggled around himWith Conway at the wheel, this was working. When the others were brought into the fray, it was not. Certain answers were followed by long pauses and whispered discussions between the FAI team. Notes were scribbled. O'Brien's focus on the process for issuing Uefa prize money to League of Ireland clubs provoked lengthy ruminations.This was now about much more than the FAI's €100,000 loan. This was about how Irish football has governed itself.It is right to say that no smoking gun was produced. That was never going to happen in this format. Delaney was well protected but, as the minutes passed, the FAI's reputation was gradually chipped away at. Worn down by the defensive effort."People across the State are scarlet for you," said Imelda Munster TD, as proceedings entered the tragi-comic phase.It is unclear, however, if there is any referee with the power to dish out the necessary red cards.The 41-year-old was discovered on the Ballynahinch Road in Dromara after 1pm.The emergency services were not able to revive him and the father-of-three was pronounced dead at the scene.The Cookstown, Co Tyrone native's heartbroken wife Kelly said she "can't breathe with the pain" and said she wished he would just walk through the door.She posted: "Today a light went out.... I can’t breathe with the pain.. he was my everything... he was life... he was everything I could possibly have dreamed and so much more."Philip Corr please walk through the door I don’t know how to do all this without you...".TRIBUTES POUR INHundreds of tributes have been paid to Philip after his death this weekend, which the PSNI say is not being treated as suspicious.The TQCC said on Saturday: "It is with great sadness and regret that the committee has to inform you of the passing today of Philip Corr, while he cycled home towards Belfast. This morning Philip had cycled out with team mates to Castlewellan, and was returning by himself. Details are unclear at present, and we will keep you informed."Philip has been with the club from the outset. Being one of the founding members, and guiding the development of the club over its first three years as Chairman."The club would not be what it is today, but for the dedication and vision of Philip.He was cycling along the banks of the Royal Canal, in Dublin’s north inner city at the time, the non-jury ­Special Criminal Court was told today.Beatty, 32, of Eugene Street, in Dublin 8, admitted in December to the unlawful ­possession of a .38 special calibre Smith & ­Wesson revolver on June 2, 2018, at Charlemont Parade, Dublin 3.He was previously jailed for seven years in 2010, ­having pleaded guilty to the same offence, the three judges heard.Today's sentence hearing heard that when Beatty was cycling along Ballybough Road, towards Fairview, by gardai they pulled their car “across his path”.Detective Garda Damien Broughan pursued Beatty on foot and saw him throw a white plastic bag onto a ­footpath — before tackling him to the ground.The recovered bag was found to contain a revolver and a number of rounds of ammo.Ballistics analysed the weapon and found it to be in good nick with five bullets in the chamber. Its serial number had been obliteratedInspector Leonard Brennan, of the Drugs and Organised Crime Bureau, said Beatty was an “important ­figure”.